# Oracle Cloud Data Science Platform: Prateek Shaw sp20-516-229


Oracle Data Science is a platform for data scientists to build, train,
and manage models on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure using Python and open
source machine learning libraries.It also offers below Oracle ML
product.Using this platform team can collaborate and developer machine
learning models.

* Oracle Labs Auto ML
* Model Explanation Tools
* Notebook
* Oracle Accelerated Data Science SDK

The main features of this platform are below.

1. Infrastructure and Data science tools
1. Collaborative and Project-Driven workspace

This platform is launched on 02-12-2020 [@www-oracle-cloud-data-science-platform-sp20-516-229].

Below are steps which we need to follow to evaluate Oracle AI Data
Science offering

### Create Oracle Free Tier Account 

Oracle Cloud Free Tier allows you to sign up for an Oracle Cloud account
which provides a number of Always Free services and a Free Trial with
US$300 of free credit to use on all eligible Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
services for up to 30 days. The Always Free services are available for
an unlimited period of time. The Free Trial services may be used until
your US$300 of free credits are consumed or the 30 days has expired,
whichever comes first. Check @fig:sp20-516-229-oracle-free-tier-1 and
@fig:sp20-516-229-oracle-free-tier-2 images for more details.

Please remember 300$ is enough to evaluate Data Science service.

![Oracle Cloud Free Tier [@oracle-cloud-data-science-platform-sp20-516-229]](images/1-oc-ft.png){#fig:sp20-516-229-oracle-free-tier-1}

![Mind](images/2-oc-ft.png){#fig:sp20-516-229-oracle-free-tier-2}

### Understadning Data Science Platform Concepts 

The first step is to undestand basic concepts of this platform.Please
see [@fig:sp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-concepts] for more
information

![Mind](images/3-oc-ds-concepts.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-concepts-a}

#### Project

Project that holds all the data science assets which include notebook
sessions and models.

#### NoteBook Session

Notebook sessions is same as jupyter notebook but this also includes
oracle developed machine learning and data science packages.It comes
with lab.

#### Accelerated Data Science (ADS) SDK

This is very important and enhanced feature which provides full life
cycle support for machine learning application.

#### Model

This is place to store,track, share and manage models.

### Configure Tenancy for Data Science

Before accessing data scince service, we need to complete below
configurations.Please see
[@fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration] for more
information.

![Configuration Steps](images/4-oc-ds-config.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-b}

#### Create User, Groups and assigning group to user

![Configuration Steps](images/5-oc-ds-user-group.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-c1}


##### User

Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on User.

![Users](images/6-ds-user.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-c2}

##### Group

Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on Group.

229-prateek-ds-group

![Groups](images/oc-ds-group.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-d}

##### Assign Group to User

Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on User

![Assign Groups](images/8-ds-assign-group.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-e}

#### Create Compartments to Own Network and DS resources

##### What is compartments ?

Compartments are the primary building blocks you use to organize your
cloud resources. You use compartments to organize and isolate your
resources to make it easier to manage and secure access to them
[@oracle-cloud-data-compartment-info-sp20-516-229].

##### Compartment creation

Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on Compartment


![Compartments](images/oc-ds-compartments.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-f}


229-prateek-ds-compartment

##### Creations of VCN and Subnets

###### Create Virtual Cloud Network

Go to Core Infrastructure, Networking, Virtual Cloud Networks and click
on Create Virtual Cloud Network Button.

Select correct compartment.


![Oracle Virtual Cloud Network](images/oc-ds-vcn.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-g}


###### Create Subnets in VCN

Go to Core Infrastructure, Networking, Virtual Cloud Networks and click
on your VCN. Make sure you are in right compartment else you will not
see VCN.

Click on Create subnet


![VCN Subnet](images/oc-ds-vcn-subnet.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-h}


#### Create Policies to control Network and DS resources

There are three policies which needed to access data science resources

##### Create policy to give users access to data science-related resources

Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on Policies

allow group 229-prateek-ds-group to manage data-science-family in
compartment 229-prateek-ds-compartment

![VCN Subnet](images/oc-ds-policy-manage-access.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-i}


##### Create policy to give users access to network resources

Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on Policies

229-prateek-ds-network-manage-access

allow group 229-prateek-ds-group to use virtual-network-family in
compartment 229-prateek-ds-compartment

![VCN Subnet](images/oc-ds-policy-network-manage.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-j}

##### Create policy to give data science service access to network resources


Go to Governance and Administraction, identity and click on Policies

229-ds-manage-datascience

allow service datascience to use virtual-network-family in compartment
229-prateek-ds-compartment

![VCN Subnet](images/oc-ds-policy-datascience-manage.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-k}


#### Create Projects

Go to Data Science and Click on Projects

![Projects](images/oc-ds-projects.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-l}

#### Creating Notebook Sessions 

Go to Data Science, Projects select Projects and Click on Create
Notebook Session

Because the notebook environment contains a comprehensive list of ML
libraries, it can take several minutes to create a notebook session.

![Notebook Sessions Configuration](images/oc-ds-projects-notebooks.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-m}


### Open NoteBook Session

Now user can open notebook session and they can write model and train.


![Notebook Sessions](images/oc-ds-notebooks.png){#fig:ssp20-516-229-oracle-data-science-configuration-n}


